# Introduction

The clinical question of phase I study is mainly to find the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of investigational treatments, in order to establish the safe and appropriate dose level that could be used in the following phase II trial. The critical part of finding MTD in phase I is that the number of participants in phase I study are usually just in dozens, and investigators need to efficiently locate the true MTD with limited sample and within short trial window, this process calls for accurate and transparent trial design which can accommodate flexible and versatile clinical settings in real-world. 
The most traditional and widely used methods to find MTD is 3+3 design, under which, cohorts of three participants are assigned a set of dose level, if 1/3 is experiencing DLT (Dose Limiting Toxicities), then another cohort of three participants is give the same level of dose; If more than 2/3 or 2/6 DLTs are observed, then terminate the trial and declare the dose below current is MTD; Otherwise, continue the trial and escalate the dose level for next cohort. As the adaptive design getting utilized in clinical trials, more and more novel phase I methods have been introduced, such as continual reassessment method (CRM), Bayesian Optimal Interval Design (BOIN), Modified Toxicity Probability Interval Design (mTPI), Escalation with overdose control (EWOC), Bayes Logistic Regression Model (BLRM), etc. 
The focus of this project is BOIN, a method introduced by Liu and Yuan in 2015, which belongs to the class of model-assisted designs. Comparing to 3+3 and other adaptive design methods, BOIN yields a very good performance in simulation (close to CRM), but is much more transparent and easy to implement in real trials, so it becomes one of the most popular adaptive design in practice. BOIN design can be used to evaluate MTD of single-agent trials and drug-combination trials. Generally speaking, BOIN assumes the DLT occurance count y_j given observed DLT rate p_j and total number n_j follows a binomial distribution, and p_j follows a beta distribution, so the posterior distribution of p_j bases on a beta-binomial model. According to the model, investigators can pre-set a DLT rate boundaries; when the real DLT rate p_j below or exceed the boundaries, the next dose level will repectively be de-escalated or escalated. As soon as the safety stopping rule being violated or reaching its max sample size, the trial will be terminated, and MTD will be estimated from trial data. In addition, for drug-combination trials, inverstigators can use BOIN to find a single MTD or MTD contour depending on their interests, using the same algorithms as above, is also known as BOIN-COMB and BOIN-waterfall design.

